How do you relate to God, His commands, and the challenges and
temptations that confront you? The world denies that God has any
authority but, as a believer, you understand the truth. As the Creator of all
that exists, God has the right and the power to conform all circumstances
to His will. He’s also entitled to expect a certain standard of behavior
from those who believe in Him.
When God directs you to do something, how do you respond? Do His
commands seem too difficult or costly for you to obey? Are you facing a
decision that seems overwhelming? Are you torn about whether or not to
follow God’s instructions? Then Life Principle 2 should help you: Obey
God and leave all the consequences to Him.
What the Bible Say

Before Israel could take over the Promised Land, God had to teach them
how to live as His people, His special possession. His commands were
for their benefit and protection, so that He could establish them in the
land and bless them. Their obedience was an essential part of their lives,
because if they failed to observe God’s laws they would face the terrible
consequences of their disobedience (see Deuteronomy 28).
The same is true for you. When you choose to disobey God, what you’re
really saying is that you don’t have confidence in Him—and you cannot
have intimate fellowship with someone that you don’t trust. Temptations
and troubles come into your life and you worry that, if you obey God,
you’ll lose something that you really want. On the other hand, if you’re
committed to pursuing an intimate relationship with God, trusting and
obeying Him in all circumstances, then you will know that you’re
receiving His very best for your life—which is far better than you could
ever obtain on your own.
Life Example

Exodus 19 takes place on the same mountain where God called Moses to
serve Him, which means that God fulfilled His promise to His servant
and to Israel. Moses obeyed God despite the consequences that
confronted him. Hebrews 11:27 states, “By faith he forsook Egypt, not
fearing the wrath of the king; for he endured as seeing Him who is
invisible.” Moses trusted God, and every problem that he faced soon
paled in comparison to the mighty love, wisdom, and power of the
Commander.

If you’ve made the decision to seek an intimate relationship with God
and obey Him no matter what, you will undoubtedly experience seasons
of difficulty and uncertainty. Your walk with God is a journey of faith,
and there will be situations when your trust in Him will be tested. What
will you cling to when a deluge of trouble rains on your life and
everything you know to be true seems to be swept away by intense winds
of adversity? What will you hold on to when the waves of doubt threaten
to crash down on you? Life Principle 3 holds the answer for you: God’s
Word is an immovable anchor in times of storm.
